Java

What is Java? / Why Java?
What is JRE / JDK / JVM?

What is an object / class?

What is the root class from which every class extends?

What are the 4 pillars of OOP / Explain each?

What is the difference between an abstract class and an interface?

What are the implicit modifiers for interface variables?

What are the primitive data types in Java?

What is the difference between method overloading and overriding?


Difference between extends and implements?

What are collections in Java?

What are the interfaces in the Collections API?

What is the difference between a Set and a List?

What is the difference between an Array and an ArrayList?

What is the difference between ArrayList and Vector?


What is the difference between TreeSet and HashSet?

What is the difference between HashTable and HashMap?


Are Maps in the Collections API?

Where are Strings stored?


What are generics? What is the diamond operator (<>)?

What are enumerations (enums)?

What are annotations?


Explain stack vs heap?


What is a POJO? What is a bean?

What is the difference between final, .finalize(), and finally?

Do you need a catch block? Can have more than 1? Order of them?


What is base class of all exceptions? What interface do they all implement?


List some checked and unchecked exceptions?

What is a Marker interface?


Why are strings immutable in java?


What is the difference between String, StringBuilder, and StringBuffer?


What are the access modifiers in Java? Explain them.


What are the non-access modifiers in Java?

What is the difference between static and final variables?

What are the default values for all data types in Java?

What are the implicit modifiers for interface variables / methods?

What is a wrapper class?

What is autoboxing / unboxing?

What is Reflection API?
			
Is Java pass-by-value or pass-by-reference?

What is the difference between == and .equals()?

throw vs throws vs Throwable?

First line of constructor?

What is JUnit?

What is TDD?

What are the annotations in JUnit? Order of execution?

Give an example of a test case?

What is Maven?

What is the Maven lifecycle?

Where / when does Maven retrieve dependencies from? Where are they stored locally?


What is the POM and what is the pom.xml?


What methods are available in the Object class?


What is an enhanced for loop and what is a forEach loop?

What is try-with-resources? What interface must the resource implement to use this feature?

What are covariant return types?

What are 3 usages of super keyword?

Can you overload / override a main method? static method? a private method? a default method? a protected method?

How to pass multiple values with a single parameter into a method?

What is static block?

What is static imports?

What makes a class immutable?

If two objects are equal, do they have the same hashcode? If not equal?

What data types are supported in switch statements?

List all non-access modifiers?

Which collections cannot hold null values?

If 2 interfaces have identical default methods and you implement both, what happens?

If 2 interfaces have same variable names and you implement both, what happens?

Why does HashTable not take null keys?

Multi-catch block - can you catch more than one exception in a single catch block?

SQL and JDBC

What is SQL?	

What are the sublanguages in SQL?	

What commands do we see in these sublanguages?

What is a Primary Key?

What is a Composite Key?

What is a Foreign Key?

What are the different types of joins?

What are the different constraints in Oracle SQL?
Order By vs Group By?

Why would we ever use a self join?

What is referential Integrity?

Explain Normalization.

What is the difference between a join and a union?

What is a view?

What are nested queries/subqueries and why do we use them?	

What are indexes?	

What are aggregate and scalar functions?	

What are triggers and when can I set them to activate?

What are cursors?

Difference between implicit and explicit cursors?

What is the difference between clustered and unclustered indexes?	

How do you add a column to a table?

What is an ERD?

What is the difference between WHERE and HAVING?

How do you prevent SQL injection in JDBC?

What is the DAO pattern?

Why create a DAO interface?

T/F: The application should deal with the data alongside the DAO.

What design pattern would we use if there are multiple DAO implementations?

What is JDBC? What is its package name? What kind of exceptions does it throw?

What are the JDBC interfaces?

How are tables related/connected to each other in a relational database?

How to get a connection in JDBC?

Difference between Statement, PreparedStatement, and CallableStatement?


HTML/CSS

What is HTML

What is the structure of an HTML document? List some tags. What is <head> used for? <body>?

What is a doctype?

What is the tag for an ordered list? Unordered list?

What are some HTML5 tags? Why were HTML5 tags introduced?

Do all tags come in a pair? What are the other things inside tags called? list some.

What is the syntax for a comment in HTML?

Give me the HTML markup for a table.

What are some tags you would use in a form?

What is CSS? what are the different ways of styling an HTML file? Which is best? why?

Describe the CSS box model.

Syntax for styling an element? What is a class and how to style them? What is an id? how to style? difference?

What if I want to select child elements, What syntax is that?

Can I select multiple elements at once? How?

What is Bootstrap?

Describe the Bootstrap grid system


JavaScript

What is JavaScript? What do we use it for?

Where is the best place to put a script tag in your HTML document?

What are the data types in JS?

What are the variable scopes in JS?

What are JS objects? What is the syntax?

What is JSON? is it different from JS objects?

How to convert JS object to/from JSON?

What does truthy/falsy mean?

What is type coercion?

What is the difference between == and === ?

How does inheritance work in JS?

What is unique about functions in JS?

What are callback functions? self-invoking functions?

What is closure? Why use closures?

What is the this keyword?

Does JS have classes? when were they introduced?

What is new with ES6? What are template literals, let keyword, Symbols, Promises?

Arrow function? What makes it different from normal function?

What is strict mode?

What will happen when I run this code: console.log(0.1+0.2==0.3) ?

What are arrays like in JS? Can you change their size?

What is a CDN? What are the benefits?

What is Fetch? Why do we use it? 

What are the steps for sending a Fetch request? 

What is AJAX? why do we use it?

What are steps to sending an AJAX request?

What is the DOM?

How to select elements from the DOM? How to insert elements dynamically?

What are events / event listeners? What are some events we can listen for? ways of setting event listeners?

What is bubbling and capturing and what is the difference?

How do you stop event propagation?